# Jane-Eyre
The goal of this project is to analyze two different editions of the Jane Eyre’s novel, namely the edition by Treves (1904) and by Feltrinelli (2014) with the aim to align the corresponding sentences in the two editions and to detect emerging topics throughout the novel. Language and communication can change over time due to a variety of factors, including cultural changes. For this reason, the automatic analysis of text documents can be useful to reveal changes in a systematic and objective way. Due to the unstructured nature of text in novels, pre-processing techniques, such as lowercasing, stop word removal, and lemmatization, are applied to clean the documents, to normalize the terms where appropriate, and to reduce the noise introduced by poorly relevant parts of text.

For the text analysis, Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques are employed. In particular, the focus of the thesis is about the use of embedding techniques (i.e., Word2Vec, Doc2Vec and BERT) characterized by the transformation of text in vectors that frame the novel text in a metric space. As a result, we observe that the Feltrinelli edition uses a richer vocabulary than the Treves edition. We also note that usually a sentence of the Treves edition corresponds to more than one sentence of the Feltrinelli edition. As a consequence, NLP techniques incur in difficulties in extracting the exact sentence correspondences across the two versions. Finally, we observe that BERT provides the better results on sentence alignment among the considered techniques. However, we also note that none of the considered approach provides very convincing outcomes. For topic detection, K-means and Hierarchical Agglomerative Clustering are employed. The results show that the topics emerging from the two novel editions are characterized by different terms.
